[data][train] Update "Data Loading and Preprocessing" doc (#44165)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/train/user-guides/data-loading-preprocessing.rst

Data Loading and Preprocessing
==============================

> Ray Train integrates with :ref:`Ray Data <data>` to offer an performant and scalable streaming solution for loading and preprocessing large datasets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray Train integrates with :ref:`Ray Data <data>` to offer a performant and scalable streaming solution for loading and preprocessing large datasets.
```

Key advantages include:

- Streaming data loading and preprocessing, scalable to petabyte-scale data.

> - Scaling out heavy data preprocessing to CPU nodes and avoid GPU training being bottlenecked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Scaling out heavy data preprocessing to CPU nodes, avoiding GPU training from being bottlenecked.
```

Data ingestion can be set up with four basic steps:

1. Create a Ray Dataset from your input data.
2. Apply preprocessing operations to your Ray Dataset.

> 3. Input the preprocessed Dataset into the Ray Train Trainer, which internally will split the dataset equally in a streaming way across the distributed training workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Input the preprocessed Dataset into the Ray Train Trainer, which internally splits the dataset equally in a streaming way across the distributed training workers.
```

            # Step 1: Create a Ray Dataset from in-memory Python lists.
            # You can also create a Ray Dataset from many other sources and file

>             # formats, see https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/data/loading-data.html.

Author: removed this change.

>                 # Step 4: Access the dataset shard for the training worker via

Author: from runtime's perspective, this happens after the step 3 below

All datasets are split (i.e. sharded) across the training workers by default. :meth:`~ray.train.get_dataset_shard` will return ``1/n`` of the dataset, where ``n`` is the number of training workers.

> Data splitting is done in a streaming fashion on the fly.

Reviewer: should we combine this into the previous paragraph?

----------------
Randomly shuffling data for each epoch can be important for model quality depending on what model you are training.

> Ray Data provides following options to random shuffling, sorted by compute overheads and randomness in acceding order. These options can be used in combination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray Data provides the following options for random shuffling, sorted by compute overheads and randomness in acceding order. These options can be used in combination.
```

> Ray Data provides following options to random shuffling, sorted by compute overheads and randomness in acceding order. These options can be used in combination.

Reviewer: by the way, i added this content in a new page under Ray Data: https://docs.ray.io/en/master/data/shuffling-data.html#types-of-shuffling

we could either link to that page, or omit this section.

Author: will link to that page

    print(StandardScaler.deserialize(metadata["preprocessor_pkl"]))

In this example, we persist the fitted preprocessor using the ``Trainer(metadata={...})`` constructor argument. This arg specifies a dict that will be available from ``TrainContext.get_metadata()`` and ``checkpoint.get_metadata()`` for checkpoints saved from the Trainer. This enables recreation of the fitted preprocessor for use for inference.

Performance tips
----------------

Prefetching batches
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> While iterating over your dataset for training, you can increase ``prefetch_batches`` in :meth:`iter_batches <ray.data.DataIterator.iter_batches>` or :meth:`iter_torch_batches <ray.data.DataIterator.iter_torch_batches>` to further increase performance. While training on the current batch, this launches background threads to fetch and process the next N batches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While iterating over your dataset for training, you can increase ``prefetch_batches`` in :meth:`iter_batches <ray.data.DataIterator.iter_batches>` or :meth:`iter_torch_batches <ray.data.DataIterator.iter_torch_batches>` to further increase performance. While training on the current batch, this launches background threads to fetch and process the next ``N`` batches.
```
